LONDON ? The Germans are angry. The Chinese are downright furious. Leaders of NATO are nervous, while their counterparts at the European Union are alarmed.
Just days before he is sworn into office, President-elect Donald J. Trump has again focused his penchant for unpredictable disruption on the rest of the world. His remarks in a string of discursive and sometimes contradictory interviews have escalated tensions with China while also infuriating allies and institutions critical to AmericaÅfs traditional leadership of the West.
No one knows where exactly he is headed ? except that the one country he is not criticizing is Russia and its president, Vladimir V. Putin. For now. And that he is an enthusiastic cheerleader of Brexit and an unaffiliated Britain. For now.
Mr. TrumpÅfs unpredictability is perhaps his most predictable characteristic. The world is accustomed to his provocative Twitter messages, but is less clear about whether his remarks represent meaningful new policy guidelines, personal judgments or passing whims. In the interviews, Mr. Trump described the European Union as Ågbasically a vehicle for GermanyÅh and predicted that the bloc would probably see other countries follow BritainÅfs example and vote to leave.
Continue reading the main story  
Related Coverage
As Inauguration Nears, Trump Keeps World Leaders on Edge JAN. 16, 2017 
Trump Criticizes NATO and Hopes for ÅeGood DealsÅf With Russia JAN. 15, 2017
Chinese State Media Denounce Rex TillersonÅfs Call to Block Island Access JAN. 13, 2017
With Trump, Russia Goes From ThursdayÅfs Foe of U.S. to FridayÅfs Friend DEC. 31, 2016 
Mr. Trump also said GermanyÅfs chancellor, Angela Merkel, had made a Ågcatastrophic mistakeÅh in allowing refugees to pour into Europe.
The barrage of inflammatory comments in joint interviews published Sunday and Monday in Britain and Germany elicited alarm and outrage in Europe, even as Ms. Merkel dryly characterized Mr. TrumpÅfs positions as nothing new.
ÅgThey have been known for a while ? my positions are also known,Åh Ms. Merkel said Monday in Berlin. ÅgI think we Europeans have control of our destiny.Åh
Her clipped response came as officials and analysts struggled with how to interpret Mr. TrumpÅfs remarks, as well as how to react to them.
Some argued that the president-electÅfs words should be regarded as tactical, intended merely to keep his options open. But nearly everyone agreed that Mr. Trump had made trouble, especially in criticizing Ms. Merkel, given her importance as a figure of stability in Europe and her campaign for re-election later this year.
For good measure, Mr. Trump had also infuriated China by using an interview on Friday with The Wall Street Journal to again question ChinaÅfs longstanding One China policy. It holds that Taiwan is an inalienable part of the mainland.
On Monday, ChinaÅfs foreign ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, said that anyone trying to use the status of Taiwan for negotiations would be Ågsmashing their feet by lifting a rockÅh and would face broad and strong opposition from the Chinese government and people, as well as the international community. She added that Ågnot everything in the world can be bargained or traded off.Åh
Not since Lincoln has there been a president as fundamentally shaped ? in his life, convictions and outlook on the world ? by reading and writing as Barack Obama.
Last Friday, seven days before his departure from the White House, Mr. Obama sat down in the Oval Office and talked about the indispensable role that books have played during his presidency and throughout his life ? from his peripatetic and sometimes lonely boyhood, when Ågthese worlds that were portableÅh provided companionship, to his youth when they helped him to figure out who he was, what he thought and what was important.
During his eight years in the White House ? in a noisy era of information overload, extreme partisanship and knee-jerk reactions ? books were a sustaining source of ideas and inspiration, and gave him a renewed appreciation for the complexities and ambiguities of the human condition.
ÅgAt a time when events move so quickly and so much information is transmitted,Åh he said, reading gave him the ability to occasionally Ågslow down and get perspectiveÅh and Ågthe ability to get in somebody elseÅfs shoes.Åh These two things, he added, Åghave been invaluable to me. Whether theyÅfve made me a better president I canÅft say. But what I can say is that they have allowed me to sort of maintain my balance during the course of eight years, because this is a place that comes at you hard and fast and doesnÅft let up.Åh
Continue reading the main story  
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story 
[ Read a transcript of the interview with Barack Obama ]
The writings of Lincoln, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., Gandhi and Nelson Mandela, Mr. Obama found, were Ågparticularly helpfulÅh when Ågwhat you wanted was a sense of solidarity,Åh adding Ågduring very difficult moments, this job can be very isolating.Åh ÅgSo sometimes you have to sort of hop across history to find folks who have been similarly feeling isolated, and thatÅfs been useful.Åh There is a handwritten copy of the Gettysburg Address in the Lincoln Bedroom, and sometimes, in the evening, Mr. Obama says, he would wander over from his home office to read it.
WASHINGTON ? President-elect Donald J. Trump eschewed public appearances and met privately on Monday with the eldest son of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. on the holiday devoted to the civil rights hero, in a tentative show of outreach to African-Americans who have been alarmed by his rhetoric and his policy positions.
The hastily arranged meeting at Trump Tower came as tensions escalated between the incoming president and a number of prominent black leaders after Mr. Trump feuded publicly with  Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, who fought for civil rights alongside Dr. King.
It highlighted the challenges Mr. Trump faces as he prepares to take office on Friday deeply distrusted by minorities across the country, many of whom have been offended by his false allegations that President Obama was born outside the United States, appalled that his candidacy drew backing from white supremacist organizations, and dismayed at policy proposals they consider antithetical to their interests.
Mr. Trump on Monday did not address those issues, appearing in the lobby to allow news cameras to capture pictures of him shaking hands with Martin Luther King III, but ignoring questions shouted by reporters about their conversation or his statements about Mr. Lewis.
Continue reading the main story  
Related Coverage
Celebration of Martin Luther King Jr. Still Faces Pushback JAN. 16, 2017 
Tentative plans for Mr. Trump to visit the Smithsonian Museum of African-American History and Culture in Washington, as the nation paused to remember Dr. King, had been shelved in favor of the closed-door session, which lasted just under one hour. But Mr. Trump made sure that journalists had an opportunity to see him with Mr. King, a visual manifestation of his stated aspiration to unite a divided nation.
Mr. King said the session, which included a discussion about voting rights, had been Ågconstructive,Åh and described Mr. Trump as eager to present himself as inclusive.
Gary Sanchez, the young catcher and face of the rebuilding Yankees, stood behind a counter Monday afternoon and prepared two sandwiches for starry-eyed customers at the Bullpen Deli Twin Donut on 161st Street in the Bronx. The current teamÅfs greatest slugger somehow cobbled together a turkey, lettuce and tomato concoction on a roll, with mayo. Then he created a simpler ham and cheese.
ÅgNo knives!Åh urged Jason Zillo, the YankeesÅf director of publicity and media relations, concerned that Sanchez might accidentally wound himself.
SanchezÅfs wardrobe at the deli ? his pinstriped No. 24 uniform and accessorized chefÅfs hat ? clearly demonstrated that rules are changing on the fly for the Bombers. After four seasons without a playoff victory, the haughty, dynastic Yankees have come to the realization that they must mix with the common folk if they are to persuade more fans to buy into this painful renewal program.
This week, during a four-day campaign titled ÅgWinter Warm-Up 2017,Åh several young Yankees and a few veterans will serve up sandwiches, visit senior centers and make phone calls to season-ticket holders to thank them for their support.
This is the kind of stuff the Mets used to do during their so-called winter caravans, when they were dealing with the frequent reality of being overshadowed by the Yankees in New York. But the Mets abandoned that tradition more than a decade ago in order to assemble players earlier in Port St. Lucie, Fla., to prepare for the coming season. And these days they seemingly donÅft need a caravan to sell tickets ? theyÅfre a good team with a bunch of marquee players who made it all the way to the World Series in 2015.
So, startling as it might seem, itÅfs the YankeesÅf turn to hit the pavement and make themselves better known. While it is hard to imagine Derek Jeter or Alex Rodriguez ever agreeing to work at a bodega in January, the current campaign is more feasible because the YankeesÅf roster has turned over and is generally fresher and less grizzled. Players are more willing to do publicity stunts in the middle of the winter.
Whether it helps to sell more tickets is, of course, another question. Baseball attendance has a way of reflecting performance, and last season, the Yankees lacked both big names and big victories. What resulted was a continuing slide in attendance ? to be exact, a drop of 130,390 fans, according to the Baseball-Reference website ? that must be worrisome to Yankee ownership and, combined with the revival of the Mets, raises the possibility that the cityÅfs baseball pecking order is on the cusp of a major reversal.
Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Sign Up
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. 
See Sample Privacy Policy 
Consider: In 2014, the Yankees drew 3,401,624 fans and had an average attendance of 42,520 fans per game, trailing only the Los Angeles Dodgers and the St. Louis Cardinals. That same season, the Mets ranked 21st in attendance, drawing 2,148,808 fans and an average crowd of 26,860.
By 2016, the Yankees had fallen to sixth in attendance, attracting 3,063,405 fans and an average of 37,819. The Mets drew 2,789,602 fans that year ? an increase of 219,849 from the previous season ? for an average of 34,870, the ninth best in baseball.
Over the course of just three seasons, the attendance gap between the two clubs had narrowed from more than 1.2 million fans to fewer than 300,000.
That brings us to the deli and to Sanchez, a 24-year-old native of the Dominican Republic who tore up the American League last season with 20 homers and 42 R.B.I. in 53 games after he was recalled from Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre on Aug. 3. More than any of the YankeesÅf other young players, Sanchez has already proved his potential merit.
ÅgIt was a good season for me, but thatÅfs past,Åh he told a pack of reporters Monday, through an interpreter, after his sandwich duty was done. ÅgI have to focus on this season, hopefully make the playoffs. I donÅft feel any pressure at all. Just got to keep doing the same things. What kind of results, weÅfll have to see.Åh
After the interviews, Sanchez posed for selfies with fans and signed autographs in the back of the deli. Again, it was hard to imagine Roger Clemens or Jorge Posada performing such tasks in the same kind of setting.
ÅgItÅfs exciting to go into the neighborhood and spend some time with people around us,Åh Sanchez said.
He sounded and looked very young. Now, he just has to win a few championships, keep the Mets at bay. Call that a hero sandwich
The 1996 project never materialized, but by then Mr. Trump was already well known in Russia. Moscow was in the midst of a construction boom, which transformed the capital from a drab, post-Soviet expanse into a sparkly modern city.
Yuri M. Luzhkov, MoscowÅfs mayor at the time, said in an interview that he had met with Mr. Trump and showed him plans for a massive underground shopping mall just outside the Kremlin gates. Mr. Trump suggested connecting it to the Metro, Åga very important observation,Åh Mr. Luzhkov said. Today, visitors to the Okhotny Ryad shopping center can go straight from the Metro to the Calvin Klein store without venturing into the cold.
In the following years, Mr. TrumpÅfs pursuit of Russia was strengthened by a growing circle of partners and associates in Canada and the United States who had roots in the region. Among them were Tevfik Arif, a former Soviet-era commerce official originally from Kazakhstan who founded a development company called the Bayrock Group, and Mr. Sater, a partner in the firm, who had moved to New York from Russia as a child.
Bayrock was in Trump Tower, two floors below the Trump Organization. While working to take Trump-branded towers to Arizona, Florida and New YorkÅfs SoHo neighborhood, Bayrock also began scouting for deals in Russia and other countries.
ÅgWe looked at some very, very large properties in Russia,Åh Mr. Sater said. ÅgThink of a large Vegas high-rise.Åh
When Mr. Sater traveled to Moscow with Ivanka and Donald Trump Jr. to meet with developers in 2006, he said their attitude could be summarized as Ågnice, big city, great. LetÅfs do a deal here.Åh
Mr. Trump continued to work with Mr. Sater even after his role in a huge stock manipulation scheme involving Mafia figures and Russian criminals was revealed; Mr. Sater pleaded guilty and served as a government informant.
In 2007, Mr. Trump discussed a deal for a Trump International Hotel and Tower in Moscow that Bayrock had lined up with Russian investors.
ÅgIt would be a nonexclusive deal, so it would not have precluded me from doing other deals in Moscow, which was very important to me,Åh Mr. Trump said in a deposition in an unsuccessful libel suit he brought against Tim OÅfBrien, a journalist.
He claimed the development had fallen apart after Mr. OÅfBrien wrote a book saying that Mr. Trump was worth far less than he claimed. But Mr. Trump said he was close to striking another real estate deal in Moscow.
ÅgWeÅfre going to do one fairly soon,Åh he said. Moscow, he insisted Ågwill be one of the cities where we will be.Åh
Making a Mark
The Trump brand did appear in Russia, but not quite as the grand edifice the real estate mogul had envisioned.
Trump Super Premium Vodka, with the shine of bottles glazed with 24-karat gold, was presented at the MillionaireÅfs Fair in Moscow in 2007, and large orders for the spirits followed. The vodka was sold in Russia as late as 2009, but eventually fizzled out. In a news release, Mr. Trump heralded it as a Ågtremendous achievement.Åh
He tried ? and failed ? to start a reality show in St. Petersburg in 2008 starring a Russian mixed martial arts fighter.
But real estate developments remained a constant goal. From 2006 to 2008, his company applied for several trademarks in Russia, including Trump, Trump Tower, Trump International Hotel and Tower, and Trump Home, according to a record search by Sojuzpatent, a Russian intellectual property firm.
Photo
ÅgHe said that he is going to represent Americans ? heÅfs said that over and over again,Åh Mr. King, the president of the Drum Major Institute, a progressive New York-based public policy organization, told reporters. ÅgWe will continue to evaluate that.Åh
On Monday, Mr. King sought to defuse the furor surrounding Mr. TrumpÅfs remarks about Mr. Lewis, saying, ÅgIn the heat of emotion, a lot of things get said on both sides.Åh
Mr. King has pressed for the creation of a free photographic government identification card to make it easier for Americans who do not have driverÅfs licenses, including many black voters, to cast ballots, and he indicated on Monday that Mr. Trump had taken an interest in the plan.
ÅgIt is very clear that the system is not working at its maximum,Åh Mr. King told reporters. ÅgWe believe we provided a solution.Åh
But other leaders said Mr. TrumpÅfs relationship with African-Americans ? tense bordering on toxic after a strident campaign that instilled fear, and a transition that has done little to allay their concerns ? would not improve unless the president-elect altered both his tone and his policy positions.
ÅgThereÅfs a lot of anxiety, thereÅfs a lot of distrust, there are people who have expressed to me that theyÅfre scared of what his policies might entail,Åh said Marc Morial, the president of the National Urban League.
Mr. Trump won election with 8 percent of the African-American vote, according to exit polls. A Pew Research Center poll in November found roughly three-quarters of African Americans believed race relations would worsen during his presidency.
Mr. TrumpÅfs brief sighting on Monday afternoon at Trump Tower was a striking contrast to President Obama, who spent part of Monday ? his final observance of Martin Luther KingÅfs Birthday in office ? making a stop at a homeless shelter in Washington.
Earlier, his wife, Michelle Obama, had spoken out subtly in her own Twitter post, saying she was, ÅgThinking of Dr. King and great leaders like @repjohnlewis who carry on his legacy.Åh
May their example be our call to action,Åh she wrote
The Rev. Al Sharpton said nothing underscored Mr. TrumpÅfs challenge more vividly than his outburst in a pair of Twitter postings on Saturday that called Mr. Lewis, who was brutally beaten in the ÅgBloody SundayÅh march in 1965 in Selma, Ala., Ågall talk,Åh and said that instead of Ågfalsely complainingÅh about the election results, he should focus on fixing his Ågfalling apartÅh and Ågcrime infestedÅh Georgia district.
Mr. Lewis actually represents a district that includes part of the wealthy enclave of Buckhead; the worldÅfs busiest airport, Hartsfield-Jackson; the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; and the Georgia Institute of Technology. Mr. TrumpÅfs remarks were a reaction to an interview on Friday in which Mr. Lewis said he would not attend the inauguration and did not see Mr. Trump as a legitimate president because of questions about whether Russian hacking had affected the American election.
If you can disrespect John Lewis on Martin Luther King Day, then what are you saying about the rest of us?Åh Mr. Sharpton said, adding that no single meeting Mr. Trump could hold would alleviate the concerns felt in the African-American community. ÅgHe seems to have a one-dimensional, very negative view of what black America looks like, and that is frightening to many black Americans.Åh
Mr. Sharpton said he was concerned that Mr. Trump was more interested in public appearances than substantive meetings with African-American activists and lawmakers to address issues of voting rights, criminal justice and policing reform, health care and economic inequality.
For more than four decades, Sala Udin lived under the shadow of a federal firearms conviction, the result of a search by the Kentucky police who found an unloaded shotgun in the trunk of his car in 1970.
Mr. Udin, who had been a Freedom Rider during the civil rights era, carried the gun for protection as he drove around the South. After eight months in prison, he lived an exemplary life, serving on the Pittsburgh City Council and playing a role in the cityÅfs redevelopment. But when President Obama visited Pittsburgh in 2009, Mr. Udin wasnÅft allowed to meet him: His criminal record prevented such an encounter.
Last month, Mr. Obama issued Mr. Udin a pardon ? one of just 148 pardons the president has granted during his two terms in office. It is an abysmally low number for a president who has stressed his commitment to second chances and the importance of helping convicted people re-enter society.
The White House has been trumpeting Mr. ObamaÅfs use of his clemency power in the last two years, especially his nearly 1,200 commutations of prison sentences, more than the last several presidents combined. Most of these inmates were serving outrageously long terms, including life without parole, for nonviolent drug crimes. Commuting those sentences is meaningful progress, even if Mr. Obama could and should have started much earlier and released thousands more deserving people.
But when it comes to the other type of executive clemency ? pardons ? Mr. Obama hasnÅft been an improvement over his predecessors. Unlike a commutation, which shortens or ends a prison sentence, a pardon is an act of forgiveness granted to someone who has completed a sentence. Pardons remove the stigma of conviction and restore the right to hold office, to vote, to obtain certain business licenses and to own a gun ? all activities that can be denied those with criminal records
There is a better way. In both liberal and conservative states, from Delaware and Connecticut to Nebraska and Georgia, the pardon process is more predictable and transparent. Some states require independent boards to make pardon recommendations to the governor; others hold regularly scheduled public hearings. All take the executiveÅfs job of granting mercy seriously, which makes those grants both more fair and more common.
On Mr. ObamaÅfs first Inauguration Day, in 2009, President George W. Bush gave him a good piece of advice: Pick a pardon policy and stick with it. Perhaps President-elect Donald Trump will learn from Mr. ObamaÅfs failure to heed that wisdom.
Mr. Trump repeatedly sought business in Russia as far back as 1987, when he traveled there to explore building a hotel. He applied for his trademark in the country as early as 1996. And his children and associates have appeared in Moscow over and over in search of joint ventures, meeting with developers and government officials.
During a trip in 2006, Mr. Sater and two of Mr. TrumpÅfs children, Donald Jr. and Ivanka, stayed at the historic Hotel National Moscow opposite the Kremlin, connecting with potential partners over the course of several days.
As recently as 2013, Mr. Trump himself was in Moscow. He had sold Russian real estate developers the right to host his Miss Universe pageant that year, and he used the visit as a chance to discuss development deals, writing on Twitter at the time: ÅgTRUMP TOWER-MOSCOW is next.Åh
It was 2005, and Felix Sater, a Russian immigrant, was back in Moscow pursuing an ambitious plan to build a Trump tower on the site of an old pencil factory along the Moscow River that would offer hotel rooms, condominiums and commercial office space.
Letters of intent had been signed and square footage was being analyzed. ÅgThere was an opportunity to explore building Trump towers internationally,Åh said Mr. Sater, who worked for a New York-based development company that was a partner with Donald J. Trump on a variety of deals during that decade. ÅgAnd Russia was one of those countries.Åh
The president-electÅfs favorable comments about President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the conclusion of United States intelligence officials that Moscow acted to help Mr. TrumpÅfs campaign have focused attention on Mr. TrumpÅfs business interests in Russia. Asked about the issue at his news conference last week, Mr. Trump was emphatic on one point: ÅgI have no dealings with Russia.Åh And he repeated, ÅgI have no deals that could happen in Russia because weÅfve stayed away.Åh
The project on the old pencil factory site ultimately fizzled. And by the time Mr. Trump entered the presidential race, he had failed to get any real estate development off the ground in Russia. But it was not for lack of trying.
As the Russian market opened up in the post-Soviet era, Mr. Trump and his partners pursued Russians who were newly flush with cash to buy apartments in Trump Towers in New York and Florida, sales that he boasted about in a 2014 interview. ÅgI know the Russians better than anybody,Åh Mr. Trump told Michael DÅfAntonio, a Trump biographer who shared unpublished interview transcripts with The New York Times.
Seeking deals in Russia became part of a broader strategy to expand the Trump brand worldwide. By the mid-2000s, Mr. Trump was transitioning to mostly licensing his name to hotel, condominium and commercial towers rather than building or investing in real estate himself. He discovered that his name was especially attractive in developing countries where the rising rich aspired to the type of ritzy glamour he personified.
While he nailed down ventures in the Philippines, India and elsewhere, closing deals in Russia proved challenging. In 2008, Donald Trump Jr. praised the opportunities in Russia, but also called it a Ågscary placeÅh to do business because of corruption and legal complications.
Mr. Sater said that American hotel chains that had moved into Russia did so with straightforward agreements to manage hotels that other partners owned. Mr. Trump, by contrast, was pursuing developments that included residential or commercial offerings in which he would take a cut of sales, terms that Russians were reluctant to embrace.
Even so, Mr. Trump said his efforts put him in contact with powerful people there. ÅgI called it my weekend in Moscow,Åh Mr. Trump said of his 2013 trip to Moscow during a September 2015 interview on ÅgThe Hugh Hewitt Show.Åh He added: ÅgI was with the top-level people, both oligarchs and generals, and top of the government people. I canÅft go further than that, but I will tell you that I met the top people, and the relationship was extraordinary.Åh
When asked about Mr. TrumpÅfs claim that he had Ågstayed awayÅh from Russia, Alan Garten, general counsel for the Trump Organization, said it was a fair characterization given that none of the development opportunities ever materialized. Mr. TrumpÅfs interest in Russia, he said, was no different from his attraction to other emerging markets in which he investigated possible ventures. Mr. Garten did not respond to questions about whom Mr. Trump met with in Moscow in 2013 and what was discussed.
Stalking Deals
Ted Liebman, an architect based in New York, got the call in 1996. Mr. Trump and Liggett-Ducat, an American tobacco company that owned property in Moscow, wanted to build a high-end residential development near an old Russian Olympic stadium. As they prepared to meet with officials in Moscow, they needed sketches of the Trump tower they envisioned.
The architect scrambled to meet the request, handing over plans to Mr. Trump at his Manhattan office. ÅgI hope we can do this,Åh Mr. Liebman recalled Mr. Trump telling him.
Soon after, Mr. Trump was in Russia, promoting the proposal and singing the praises of the Russian market.
ÅgIÅfve seen cities all over the world. Some IÅfve liked, some I havenÅft,Åh Mr. Trump said at a news conference in Moscow in 1996, according to The Moscow Times. But he added that he didnÅft think he had ever been Ågas impressed with the potential of a city as I have been with Moscow.Åh
Mr. Trump had been eyeing the potential for nearly a decade, expressing interest to government officials ranging from the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev (they first met in Washington in 1987) to the military figure Alexander Lebed.
Donald Trump Jr. became a regular presence in Russia. Speaking at a 2008 Manhattan real estate conference, he confessed to fears of doing business in Russia, saying there is Ågan issue of ÅeWill I ever see my money back out of that deal or can I actually trust the person I am doing the deal with?ÅfÅh according to coverage of his remarks in eTurboNews.
But he told the Manhattan audience that ÅgI really prefer Moscow over all cities in the worldÅh and that he had visited Russia a half-dozen times in 18 months.
In 2011, he was still at it. ÅgHeading to the airport to go to Moscow for business,Åh he tweeted that year.
Mr. Trump himself was back in Moscow in 2013, attending the Miss Universe pageant, which he owned with NBC.
Earlier that year, at the Miss USA pageant in Las Vegas, he had announced that Aras and Emin Agalarov, father and son real estate developers in Russia, would host the worldwide competition.
Erin Brady, that yearÅfs Miss USA winner, who watched the announcement from backstage of the auditorium at Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino, said the news was a surprise. She was expecting one of the Latin American countries where beauty pageants are widely celebrated.
ÅgI was like, ÅeWow, Russia, I never thought of that,ÅfÅh she said
Phil Ruffin, Mr. TrumpÅfs partner in the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Las Vegas, said he was happy to lend him his new Global 5000 private plane for the trip. He and his wife met Mr. Trump in Moscow, also checking into the Ritz-Carlton. Mr. Ruffin said he and Mr. Trump had lunch at the hotel with the Agalarovs.
The Agalarovs also reportedly hosted a dinner for Mr. Trump the night of the pageant, along with Herman Gref, a former Russian economy minister who serves as chief executive of the state-controlled Sberbank PJSC, according to Bloomberg News.
Talk of development deals swirled around the visit, and Mr. Trump sent out his tweet, promising that Trump Tower Moscow was coming.
But the tower never appeared on the skyline.
ROSWELL, Ga. ? It was 1 in the morning, and the orthopedic surgeon on call was preparing to operate on a woman whose foot had been shattered in a car wreck, after hours of tending to other patients. The womanÅfs husband, Jeff Anderson, asked him, ÅgAre you too tired to do this?Åh
ÅgHe looked me straight in the eye ? very quiet guy ? and said, ÅeI was born to do this,ÅfÅh Mr. Anderson recalled.
The surgeon that night more than 20 years ago was Representative Tom Price of Georgia, President-elect Donald J. TrumpÅfs nominee for secretary of health and human services, the cabinet official who will lead the new administrationÅfs efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act.
Since then, the assuredness that defined Mr. Price as a surgeon has carried into his political career. He has always listened politely to other viewpoints but never swerved from his policy mission to protect his former profession from what he views as heavy-handed government intrusion.
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage
Trump Promises ÅeInsurance for EverybodyÅf as Health Law Replacement JAN. 15, 2017 
Tom Price, Obamacare Critic, Is TrumpÅfs Choice for Health Secretary NOV. 28, 2016 
TrumpÅfs Health Secretary Pick Leaves NationÅfs Doctors Divided DEC. 26, 2016 
Many who knew Mr. Price as a doctor here in AtlantaÅfs affluent northern suburbs praise his commitment to his patients. But his legislative record shows that over eight years in the Georgia Senate and 12 years in Congress, he has advocated at least as much for physician groups and health care companies ? seeking to limit damages in malpractice cases, for instance, and voting against legislation that would have required the government to negotiate lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries.
Mr. Price has routinely argued that patients are the driving force behind his efforts. Still, his positions have often coincided with the financial interests of groups whose donations have helped advance his political career.
Doctors themselves are sharply divided over his nomination, and some are particularly galled by Mr. PriceÅfs enmity for the Affordable Care Act and opposition to abortion rights. Some of his positions even clash with those of Mr. Trump, who wants to pressure pharmaceutical companies on drug prices, for example, and has pledged to largely leave Medicare alone.
Photo
If confirmed, Mr. Price, 62, will soon have far more power to influence the nationÅfs vast health care system than he ever did as a lawmaker. One of his first tasks would be to help Mr. Trump and Republicans in Congress determine how to eviscerate and replace the health law, a goal he has held since the lawÅfs passage in 2010. But as leader of the agency that oversees Medicare, Medicaid, the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Mr. Price would also hold considerable regulatory power, with the ability to influence everything from how applications to market new drugs are reviewed to how doctors are compensated for treating elderly and poor patients.
As Mr. Price prepares for two confirmation hearings ? the first of which is scheduled for Wednesday ? his past efforts on behalf of health-related companies, which have donated generously to his campaigns, are under scrutiny. So, too, is Mr. PriceÅfs history of trading in biomedical, pharmaceutical and health insurance stocks while serving on the health subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee. Democrats have called for investigations into whether he traded stock based on information he gleaned as a congressman.
Last year, Mr. Price bought stock in a company that makes orthopedic implants shortly before introducing legislation that could have protected the company, Zimmer Biomet, from financial losses due to a new federal regulation. The regulation sought to rein in spending on joint replacements for Medicare patients; Mr. PriceÅfs legislation would have delayed its implementation. After he introduced it, ZimmerÅfs political action committee contributed to his re-election campaign; the string of events was first reported Monday by CNN.
Phillip J. Blando, a spokesman for the Trump transition team, said Mr. Price Åghad no knowledge or input into the purchaseÅh of the Zimmer stock, which he said was made by a broker. Asked why Mr. Price had not directed his broker to avoid buying health-related stocks while he wrote and voted on health legislation, Mr. Blando said, ÅgWe know that other members of Congress, including Democrats, have holdings in health care stocks and vote on health-related legislation.Åh
In a letter to an ethics lawyer at the Department of Health and Human Services last week Mr. Price said he would divest himself of holdings in 43 health-related and other stocks to avoid conflicts of interest. Noting that the Office of Government Ethics had completed an Ågexhaustive reviewÅh of Mr. PriceÅfs financial holdings, Mr. Blando said last week that Mr. Price Ågtakes his obligation to uphold the public trust very seriously.Åh
Although not among the billionaires whom Mr. Trump has tapped for his cabinet, Mr. Price has profited from medicine, both as a doctor and as an active investor in health care-related companies including Aetna, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Zimmer Biomet, which makes artificial joints and other medical devices. He has an estimated net worth of $13.6 million, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, with assets that include real estate. He has also been an effective fund-raiser: Even in his first run for office in 1996, his war chest of $173,000, much of which came from doctors and medical companies, led his poorly financed Democratic opponent to call him ÅgDr. Dollar.Åh
A brisk, hyper-focused workaholic who relishes the granular details of legislative proposals and process, Mr. Price expressed concern last year about Mr. TrumpÅfs grasp of the issues. Taking questions from a student group at Emory University, he said he had voted for Marco Rubio in the Republican primary and called Mr. Trump an Ågempty policy vesselÅh who was Ågdangerous for politics and the economy,Åh
Mr. Price, who declined to be interviewed, was engaged in a number of pitched partisan battles even before coming to Washington in 2005. In the Georgia Legislature, he voted against a new state flag that minimized the Confederate battle cross and supported a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage. In Congress, he has taken stances seen as antithetical to public health, opposing regulating tobacco as a drug and favoring legislation that would make it easier to sell bullets that can pierce armor.
He has also written a fairly detailed plan for replacing the Affordable Care Act. It would repeal the lawÅfs expansion of Medicaid and provide tax credits to help with the cost of coverage based on age instead of income, with older people getting higher credits.
Mr. Price grew up in Dearborn, Mich., the son and grandson of doctors who heavily influenced his career choice. He has publicly recalled making house calls with his grandfather, who practiced medicine into his 90s. After medical school at the University of Michigan, he moved to Georgia, completing his residency at Emory and setting up practice in Roswell, a relatively affluent, conservative suburb of Atlanta.
In the 1990s, his practice, Compass Orthopedics, was among seven in the Atlanta area that merged into a large group that became known as Resurgens Orthopaedics. It became the largest orthopedic practice in Georgia, and now has 100 doctors and 1,000 employees spread over 21 locations.
Dr. Steven B. Wertheim, another founding partner of Resurgens, said one goal of the consolidation was to gain bargaining power with insurance companies and to provide M.R.I.s, physical therapy and even certain outpatient operations in-house rather than referring patients to other providers or operating at hospitals. More leverage with insurers often allows doctors to extract higher rates.
ÅgHis overall gist was, ÅeLook, if all we did was practice good medicine, weÅfd be broke by tomorrow,ÅfÅh Dr. Wertheim said of Mr. Price. ÅgHe understood the need to run a business.Åh
As a physician, Mr. Price was constantly frustrated by having to seek insurance companiesÅf approval for his patients to get an expensive diagnostic test or physical therapy ? a common complaint among specialists. Similarly, he resented when federal health regulators intervened in something he and his partners thought they were already doing well, like using electronic medical records.
Those are the things that drove him crazy,Åh Dr. Wertheim said.
His resentment of government intervention in medicine drove Mr. Price to become involved in the Medical Association of Georgia early in his career, and his work there led him to run for office in 1995, when the House seat in his district opened up. But by 2002, as his legislative duties increased, he traded his suburban practice for a job at Grady Memorial Hospital, a vast, chaotic, aging complex, just a few blocks from the State Capitol.
For the next two years, Mr. Price was the medical director of GradyÅfs orthopedic clinic, seeing a vastly different population than the well-off, privately insured patients he was used to. Most of GradyÅfs patients are poor and black, and many lack any form of insurance. Long waits for care are the norm, and trauma, including gunshot wounds, is a big part of the caseload.
ÅgHe called me and asked if there was a position,Åh said Dr. James R. Roberson, the chairman of the orthopedics department at Emory University School of Medicine, whose residents train at Grady. ÅgHe needed some flexibility ? that was most of his impetus to want to return to Grady, because he was really very interested in pursuing a political career.Åh
Dr. Roberson said that Mr. Price played a Ågunique roleÅh at the clinic, training residents and overseeing patient care but also seeking to address inefficiencies ? long wait times, for example ? and representing the clinic at hospital administrative meetings. Although he saw patients, he did not perform surgery or need to be on call at night ? an unusual arrangement, Dr. Roberson said.
In the Legislature, Mr. Price spent his first six years in the powerless minority, although he quickly rose to the position of minority whip.
His fortunes changed in 2003, after Sonny Perdue became the first Republican governor since Reconstruction and persuaded enough Democrats to switch parties to put the Senate into Republican hands.
As the majority leader, Mr. PriceÅfs intimate knowledge of procedural rules and maneuvers, gleaned from assiduous research, helped advance his partyÅfs agenda.
In the state Legislature, he was the leader who delivered bad news, the no-nonsense tactician to some of his Southern-born colleaguesÅf more backslapping style. His sense of humor, when he used it, was dry. Colleagues often wondered if he slept.
ÅgHeÅfs a machine,Åh said Russell K. Paul, a Republican who served in the State Senate with Mr. Price.
During his two years in the majority, Mr. PriceÅfs top priority was curbing the rising cost of medical malpractice insurance, which he said was forcing hospitals and nursing homes to close and forcing doctors to limit which procedures they performed.
ÅgHe was very bright, articulate, and smart enough to be able to see the different sides,Åh said Tom Bordeaux, a former Democratic state lawmaker and trial lawyer who negotiated with Mr. Price over a package of bills Mr. Price introduced to limit doctorsÅf liability in malpractice cases. ÅgBut he was just totally unwilling. He was very gracious and he was completely inflexible.Åh
Ultimately, Mr. Price failed to persuade even his Republican colleagues to accept a provision that would have capped pain-and-suffering damages for malpractice victims at $250,000.
Mr. Paul, now the mayor of Sandy Springs, Ga., said Mr. Price had become more partisan during his last few years in the Legislature, when the Republicans saw an opportunity to tip the balance of power in their favor for the first time since Reconstruction.
ÅgThere was not a lot of bipartisan collegiality when it came to trying to control the government in Georgia,Åh Mr. Paul said, Ågand that environment was the crucible that began to turn Tom into a hardened political warrior.Åh
In Congress, Mr. Price has made frequent speeches to health industry and physician groups, and has occasionally introduced legislation on their behalf. Last year, for example, he sponsored a bill fighting new lower Medicare payment rates for Ågdurable medical equipmentÅh like wheelchairs and canes. A few months later, he spoke at a conference for companies that supply such equipment, which held a $100-a-head fund-raiser on his behalf that same day.
Mr. Price has also supported proposals to overhaul Medicare ? potentially putting him at odds with his new boss, Mr. Trump, who has pledged not to ÅgtouchÅh the program. Speaking to a student group at the University of Michigan in 2015, Mr. Price expressed concern that Mr. Trump would not listen to others, including Congress, if elected.
ÅgWhen I hear Trump saying things like, ÅeIÅfll just do XYZ,Åf without seemingly any regard for the legislative branch,Åh Mr. Price told the group, Ågit gives me some thought.Åh
HONG KONG ? Samsung, the giant maker of products as varied as cargo ships and smartphones, is one of the driving forces of the South Korean economy. Now, the fate of its leadership could be tied to the sprawling investigation of a corruption scandal involving the nationÅfs president.
Prosecutors on Monday called for the arrest of the companyÅfs heir-apparent, Lee Jae-yong. Prosecutors contend that Mr. Lee bribed President Park Geun-hye and one of her confidants in exchange for political favors.
The charges were leveled at a tough time for the company, which was struggling in some of its core businesses while trying to break from its past and forge a new management culture. SamsungÅfs Galaxy Note 7, intended to showcase its ability to innovate and challenge Apple for global smartphone supremacy, instead showed a propensity to burst into flames, and was recalled. Samsung has been without a chairman for two years, after the patriarch had a heart attack.
The crisis is particularly difficult not only for the company, but for South KoreaÅfs relatively young democracy. One of the countryÅfs most important companies might be wounded, and the nationÅfs leadership has been thrown into disarray.
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage
Samsung Heir Faces Arrest on Charges of Bribing South KoreaÅfs President JAN. 15, 2017 
As Scandal Roils South Korea, Fingers Point to Mixing of Politics and Business JAN. 2, 2017 
Samsung Electronics, Pushed by Investors, Will Consider Restructuring NOV. 28, 2016
SamsungÅfs Galaxy Note 7 Debacle Wipes Out Its Mobile Profit OCT. 27, 2016 
Suave and mellow, Mr. Lee has often been portrayed as the right leader for a vast, stodgy business empire needing to refocus.
The bribery crisis has dominated the news for days in South Korea, where Samsung and other huge Ågchaebols,Åh or family-controlled industrial empires, are embedded in politics and in the national identity. Samsung alone accounts for about 20 percent of South KoreaÅfs exports.
The countryÅfs largest chaebols have faced legal battles and convictions in recent years, but these episodes often end with the industrialists receiving pardons.
Mr. Lee might not be arrested at all. That will be decided this week.
Prosecutors say Samsung made payments in exchange for a decision by the government-controlled National Pension Service to support a contentious 2015 merger of two Samsung affiliates. Analysts say the merger helped Mr. Lee inherit control of Samsung from his father.
In a statement on Monday, Samsung denied any bribery or making Ågimproper requests related to the merger of Samsung affiliates or the leadership transition.Åh But the move by prosecutors casts Mr. Lee in a different light, as a leader similar to his father, who was convicted of white-collar crimes but pardoned twice. It also could raise questions about Mr. LeeÅfs pledge to make Samsung more transparent and more responsive to shareholders.
South KoreaÅfs president, Ms. Park, has denied wrongdoing.
Mr. Lee, who goes by Jay Y. Lee in the West, is part of the third generation of the Lee family to lead the conglomerate. While his father was widely seen as old-fashioned, Mr. Lee has been painted by Samsung as equally comfortable in Silicon Valley and in the boardroom, as a leader who could open up the clannish business and reinvigorate SamsungÅfs flagging reputation for innovation in consumer technology. Samsung is the worldÅfs biggest maker of cellphones.
ÅgBeyond the arrest itself, this is going to be a big blow to the narrative theyÅfve been building,Åh said Geoffrey Cain, the author of a coming book on Samsung. ÅgItÅfs hard to convince shareholders and partners they are a hip Silicon Valley-style company when these charges show them to be a company run like a feudal dynasty.Åh
Samsung is in effect a collection of widely disparate companies, each with an autonomous, professional management team. Samsung Electronics, the most important of those companies, is broken into high-functioning business units. Because of that, some observers say that the company could continue to run smoothly without Mr. Lee.
Important matters that require Mr. LeeÅfs imprimatur could be delayed amid the distractions, said Mark Newman, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein and Company. ÅgI think thatÅfs the thing you need to worry about: big decisions,Åh he said.
If executives lower in the hierarchy are implicated, day-to-day operations could become complicated. According to South Korean news reports, other top company leaders have been questioned.
Mr. LeeÅfs role at Samsung is not necessarily imperiled. South Korea has a long history of pardoning the leaders of its largest family-run companies. Because of SamsungÅfs size, past efforts to penalize the company or its executives have been met with worries about the effect on South KoreaÅfs economy.
But Mr. LeeÅfs problems could influence the companyÅfs strategic decisions at a time of major challenges, such as how to bounce back from the debacle over its Galaxy Note 7. A spate of fires last year forced Samsung to recall and then cease production of the phone, tarnishing the companyÅfs name and making it the object of airline safety announcements and jokes on American late-night talk shows.
Analysts highlighted two executives who run large parts of the companyÅfs operations who they said could take on more responsibility. One is Kwon Oh-hyun, who helped Samsung become a leader in memory and semiconductor operations. The other, Choi Gee-sung, was crucial in building the companyÅfs television unit, which eclipsed SonyÅfs a decade ago.
Mr. Lee, 48, is vice chairman of Samsung, but he has been widely considered the companyÅfs de facto leader since his father, Lee Kun-hee, had a heart attack in 2014. The elder Mr. Lee led Samsung from its roots as a components supplier to a maker of consumer products, establishing a global brand and shedding a reputation for cheap goods. In one example of his drive, two decades ago he gathered 150,000 Samsung phones that failed quality tests and set them on fire.
Under the younger Mr. Lee, Samsung has focused again on components, a sector that has benefited from companies wanting to add features to their phones. Late last year, the company struck an $8 billion deal to buy Harman International to make smart components for cars.
But Mr. Lee has also pledged to make changes to ensure that SamsungÅfs corporate governance meets international standards. As a family-controlled group with dense links among its units, the corporation has a structure that has drawn criticism from some investors.
Samsung has also pressed for cultural changes to foster innovation and a start-up-style environment, and Mr. Lee has been portrayed as a part of that shift. At Samsung, he is credited with negotiating an important deal with Steve Jobs to help make the Apple iPod.
ÅgStart-up Samsung,Åh an initiative announced last year, sought to relax what many described as a strict corporate culture. Announced with a coordinated pledge by top executives, the push was derided by some in the technology news media as evidence of SamsungÅfs top-down structure.
Despite such efforts, Samsung has not followed up with a next act in the wake of the Galaxy Note 7 debacle, and prominent projects like creating an operating system have largely been considered failures
The police in Turkey have arrested the man accused of carrying out a deadly attack on an Istanbul nightclub early on New YearÅfs Day, killing 39 people, including a police officer and 25 foreigners, according to the semiofficial Anadolu news agency as well as Turkish news reports.
The news agency said that a police raid on a residence in the outlying Esenyurt district of Istanbul had resulted in the capture of Abdulgadir Masharipov, whom the authorities described as an Islamic State militant of Uzbek nationality, along with four other people. The others were a man of Kyrgyz nationality and three women, whose nationalities were not given, Anadolu said.
Turkish news organizations posted photographs of the suspect in custody, showing him bruised and with fresh blood on his clothing and face. He had reportedly been injured while carrying out the deadly attack on the Reina nightclub on the Bosporus. An estimated 69 people were wounded by the attacker, who went on a shooting rampage with a rapid-fire rifle inside the crowded and popular venue.
The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack the next day and said in a statement that it had been carried out Ågin continuation of the blessed operations that the Islamic State is conducting against Turkey, the protector of the cross.Åh
The Turkish authorities quickly identified the suspect from closed-circuit television, and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan vowed to bring him to justice.
TurkeyÅfs foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, posted a Twitter message congratulating the countryÅfs interior minister on the arrest
ÅgIn the name of our nation, I thank primarily our minister, Suleyman Soylu, our police and intelligence organizations who captured Reina assailant,Åh he wrote.
The district where the suspect was captured, Esenyurt, on the European side of Istanbul, is a former slum that has been rapidly redeveloped with new apartment blocks housing many refugees and migrants. Turkish news reports said Mr. Masharipov was with his 4-year-old son when he was captured, and news video showed one of the suspects being attacked at the arrest scene. The suspect identified as a Kyrgyz national was seen lying handcuffed on the ground, with a police officerÅfs boot holding his head down.
MELBOURNE, Australia ? ÅgSo Ivan, are you calling Andy ÅeSirÅf?Åh
Ivan Lendl paused and then laughed, which would surely seem strange to those who know him only as Andy MurrayÅfs stone-faced coach in the front row of the playersÅf box.
ÅgDefinitely not,Åh Lendl said, chuckling some more before heading off down the crowded main hallway inside Rod Laver Arena at the Australian Open.
Clearly, not much has changed in the Murray camp since his remarkable stretch run to the No. 1 ranking and a knighthood in 2016.
He is still tough on himself on court and on the changeovers. Still Andy ? not Sir Andy ? to his peers and mentor in chief, Lendl. Still deadpan and droll with his voice that sounds as if it emanates from a mine shaft.
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage
Shelby Rogers Ousts Fourth Seed Simona Halep at Australian Open JAN. 15, 2017 
ON TENNIS 
With the Tennis Season Beginning, a Wish List for 2017 JAN. 14, 2017 
At the Australian Open, Tennis Joins Its Sports Brethren on a New Surface: Data Analytics JAN. 13, 2017 
Federer Seeks to Return With Power, Thanks to NadalÅfs Strength JAN. 12, 2017 
Asked on Monday by the on-court interviewer John Fitzgerald how MurrayÅfs wife, Kim, was handling the transition to Lady Kim, Murray said, ÅgNo more swearing during my matches, for anyone who saw that a few years ago.Åh
He was referring to KimÅfs courtside language during his semifinal victory over Tomas Berdych at the 2015 Australian Open. Her tirade did not go unnoticed, and she returned for the final cheekily wearing a shirt that read, ÅgParental advisory explicit content.Åh
Presumably, Lady Kim wonÅft be wearing that sort of thing in the playersÅf box from here on, either (or at least she wasnÅft on Monday).
ÅgI havenÅft found it distracting really,Åh Murray said of the knighthood. ÅgI mean, I found out about it four or five weeks ago. Maybe if it happened a day or so, two days before the tournament. But IÅfve had enough time to get my head around it]
Just as he has had plenty of time to prepare himself for the role of No. 1, however long it lasts.
I asked him on Monday, after his stuttering 7-5, 7-6 (5), 6-2 first-round victory over Illya Marchenko, if there had been any downside to No. 1, thinking he might bring up extra demands or burdens.
ÅgNo,Åh he said. ÅgItÅfs been great. I think because itÅfs taken me so long to get there, obviously I want to try to stay there. But also I feel like IÅfm mature enough now to handle it. Maybe if it happens when youÅfre very young, you might feel extra pressures. The responsibilities might feel a bit much, but I think because IÅfm much older and more mature, itÅfs been good.Åh
The conventional tennis wisdom is that it is harder to hang on at the top than to reach the top.
ÅgI hope not,Åh Murray said.
But for anyone who believes that he now has nowhere to go but down, that is hardly true in Australia.
He has reached five singles finals in Melbourne and lost all five. No man has done so well at any Grand Slam tournament without breaking through to win the title.
Others have lost five finals in the same major event, including Lendl, who lost five at the United States Open. But he also won three. Bill Johnston lost six finals at the United States Championships, but won the event twice. John Bromwich lost five finals at the Australian Championships in the pre-Open era, but won the title twice, too.
Murray, at 29, is in unfortunately uncharted territory, all the more so because Novak Djokovic ended his own long run of frustration at the French Open last year by finally taking the title after reaching four semifinals and three finals.
ÅgLook, itÅfs still a remarkable record, five Slam finals in Australia, and deep down I think it means an enormous amount to Andy to finally complete the puzzle,Åh said Roger Rasheed, the Australian who once coached Lleyton Hewitt when Hewitt was chasing the title here without success.
But Hewitt reached only one final in Melbourne. Murray is 46-11 here and has a better winning percentage at the Australian Open than at any other Grand Slam tournament except Wimbledon
ÅgAndy played Roger in his prime and has been playing Novak in his prime,Åh Rasheed said. ÅgItÅfs a handful of points changing the way the match falls. AndyÅfs showing heÅfs in his prime now. He just needs to get there and roll the dice again.Åh
MurrayÅfs timing may still not be quite right. He played a great deal of tennis down the stretch in 2016 and was beaten by Djokovic in a high-quality final in Doha, Qatar, to start this season. Freshness just might be a factor down the stretch as well as DjokovicÅfs eagerness to restore the pecking order.
But it does not seem quite right in light of their abilities that Djokovic has six Australian Open titles and Murray has not even one.
He broke down in tears after losing to Federer in 2010. He stared vacantly into space after losses to Djokovic and sportingly came up with the right words amid major disappointment. And yet he insisted on Monday that his emotions were not mixed when he thought about this tournament.
ÅgHonestly, theyÅfre totally positive,Åh said Murray, who plays 19-year-old Andrey Rublev in the second round on Wednesday. ÅgIÅfve had a lot of tough losses here, for sure. But I love it here. Played some great matches as well, but just havenÅft managed to win the final. But, you know, I keep coming back to try. IÅfll keep doing that until IÅfm done, but I still feel like IÅfve got a few years left to try and do it.Åh
He is, by any measure, due for a change of fortune in Melbourne. And if you like your sports with foreshadowing, the only other top tennis player to receive a knighthood was Sir Norman Brookes, the Australian star of the early 20th century.
Guess whose name has been given to the trophy awarded to the menÅfs champion at the Australian Open?
BURNLEY, England ? Francesca Wheatley does not seem like a police officer, at least not to those around her.
ÅgPeople think IÅfm too nice,Åh Police Constable Wheatley, 21, said, a touch sheepishly. They expect, she said, Åga middle-aged man.Åh
But Constable Wheatley, slight of build and with an easy smile, is exactly the kind of officer her superiors want to recruit.
For months, she has been patrolling a neighborhood of Burnley, a northern English town with a history of racial tensions (riots in 2001 left houses and businesses in flames). Like most of BritainÅfs police officers, she is unarmed but clad in a flak jacket, carrying little more than a radio, a nightstick and a set of handcuffs.
Continue reading the main story
Constable Wheatley, who studied social policy at the University of Birmingham, joined the police last summer, one of more than 150 officers farmed out across England as part of an independent initiative financed by the British Home Office that started in 2015
The program, Police Now, recruits university graduates and assigns them for two years in the countryÅfs most troubled areas, where they walk the streets and provide a public face for the police.
With police forces in the United States facing accusations of racial bias over shootings involving officers and unarmed black men, the British initiative focuses in particular on the recruitment of women and minorities, looking to diversify a corps often derided as Ågmale, pale and stale.Åh
In Burnley, Constable WheatleyÅfs supervisor, Inspector Catherine Platt, has seen the changes to the policeÅfs composition firsthand.
When she joined the force in 1993, Inspector Platt was required to wear a skirt and stockings and was given a police-issued handbag. (Her baton was smaller than that of male colleagues so it could fit inside.) Her only pair of trousers was for use on night shifts.
ÅgSeven gents and myself,Åh Inspector Platt, 45, said of her cohort of officers at the time.
ÅgWeÅfve still got a way to go,Åh she said. ÅgBut weÅfre always making progress.Åh
The diversity initiative, called Police Now ? trumpeted by Prime Minister Theresa May when she was home secretary ? is explicitly modeled after Teach First, a British version of Teach for America. As in Teach First, participants have the choice of staying on or leaving after two years
It is a significant change in a law enforcement tradition that traces its roots to 1829, when the Metropolitan Police, the force responsible for London, was established, thanks in part to Sir Robert Peel, the home secretary at the time.
Police Constable Rhian Samuda, another participant, has no plans to leave.
After joining Police Now in 2015, Constable Samuda, 24, was assigned to Tottenham, among LondonÅfs most violent boroughs. Knife crime is a persistent threat, and a police shooting in the area in August 2011 set off riots across the city.
Constable Samuda, however, is familiar with it all: She was born in the neighborhood.
The granddaughter of immigrants from Jamaica, she went to college in Nottingham, a city 100 miles north of London, before returning to live with her parents in the capital.
ÅgI love the fact that I used to live here,Åh she said, sitting in the Tottenham Police Station canteen. ÅgAnd now I give back to this community.Åh
The program aims to address lingering allegations of excessive violence and complaints that efforts to diversify have not gone far enough.
Around 28 percent of police forces in England and Wales are made up of women, while about 6 percent of officers are members of minority groups, according to figures released in March. That is up from 16 percent women and 2 percent minority members in 1998.
Continue reading
Police Now graduates, though a small proportion of overall forces, are more reflective of population statistics. So far, 176 officers have been hired since the program started in summer 2015, and around 250 more are set to join this year. Of those who are already on the beat, 49 percent are women and 18 percent are members of minorities.
Deadly violence at the hands of law enforcement remains rare in comparison with other major Western countries, particularly the United States. Police Now graduates are encouraged to resolve issues without arrests or violence.
Several challenges remain, though, for police forces and for Police Now.
As Britain has sought to curb government spending in recent years, the 5.3 million pounds, or roughly $6.4 million, guaranteed to the Police Now program over the next two years has been criticized by police unions.
Experts also note that policing has become more complex in recent years, as officers sort through data and evidence from an increasingly wide array of sources. It is too much for anyone to learn in two years, critics of the Police Now program charge.
The programÅfs organizers say that it has attracted a diverse cohort of officers and that many will follow a career in policing, though there are no explicit retention targets. David Spencer, a Police Now founder and program director, added that those who did leave would become ÅgambassadorsÅh for BritainÅfs police forces in whatever industry they joined.
Having grown up nearby, Constable Wheatley wanted to patrol Burnley. The town, population 87,000, was long centered on a number of cotton mills, but has fallen on harder times: A 2015 government report said it was among the most deprived areas in Britain
That feeling is not lost in the town itself. As he walked through the office, one of Constable WheatleyÅfs colleagues jokingly asked when Burnley looked its best. ÅgWhen youÅfre leaving it.Åh
On a recent patrol, Constable Wheatley was accompanied by Police Constable Mark Bewley, her ÅgmentorÅh ? an experienced officer assigned to team up with her in the early weeks of her career. The pair drove through the areas they are responsible for, and Constable Wheatley sat in as the police representative in a meeting of officials discussing recent episodes at a local care home.
They later walked down a nearby street where three windows had been shattered by bricks. Around the corner, the pair walked by the house of a resident who was suspected of breaking the windows, and briefly stopped to chat with him.
ÅgItÅfs always good to know not just the nice people in the neighborhood, but also the people who might commit crimes,Åh Constable Bewley said.
At the end of the working day, back at the police station, an army veteran approached them. After saying he had been drinking, he added that he was considering overdosing because of his marital problems. The man broke down crying as Constable Wheatley comforted him.
ÅgI canÅft do this again,Åh he said. ÅgIÅfm scared.Åh
Constable Wheatley and Constable Bewley drove the man to his brotherÅfs house, sat with the men in the living room and calmed the situation. As the officers left, the men thanked them and said they would try to resolve the marital difficulties before approaching law enforcement for help again.
But earlier in the police station, her arm around the manÅfs shoulder, Constable Wheatley had reassured him. ÅgYou donÅft need to be scared, she said. ÅgYou coming to us was the best thing you could have done.Åh
 Amsterdam. 
Credit
Ilvy Njiokiktjien for The New York Times 
AMSTERDAM ??Irma Boom?pays careful attention to word choice. The Dutch designer,?one of the worldÅfs?pre-eminent bookmakers,?is loath to say ÅgclientÅh and refers to her projects as Ågcommissions.Åh She also doesnÅft call herself an artist.
Never mind that Ms. Boom, 56, was once in a group exhibition at the?Pompidou?Center, or that many of her books are in the?Museum of Modern ArtÅfs collection. Her belief that she is?not an artist could be a matter of culture ? a product of her ÅgDutch rigor,Åh as the architect Rem Koolhaas, a close friend and collaborator, said.
But there are many who would at least consider Ms. BoomÅfs books works of art. Among them were the jurors of the?Johannes Vermeer Award, the Dutch state prize for the arts, which she won in 2014.?ÅgHer books transcend the level of mere information carriers,Åh the juryÅfs report?stated. ÅgThey are small or larger objects to admire, tempting us to read them with close attention.Åh?She received?100,000 euros to put toward a Ågspecial project,Åh as the prize stipulates. ÅgI cannot simply go and shop at Prada,Åh Ms. Boom said.
So Ms. Boom has used the prize for the quixotic, endless undertaking of creating a library of what she called Ågonly the books that are experimental.Åh?Above her studio here, the recently opened library is made up almost entirely of books from the 1600s and 1700s, and the 1960s and Åf70s
Those eras are when bookmaking wasnÅft held back by?conventions, Ms. Boom said, and when books Ågbreathed freedomÅh in content and form. (Many?of todayÅfs?e-books,?by contrast, represent a?Ågprovisional low pointÅh in the art of bookmaking,?writes?Mr. Koolhaas?in the catalog?ÅgIrma Boom: The Architecture of the Book.Åh)?Her?library includes?poetry?collections, as well as exhibition catalogs that experimented with form ? a book bound with bolts, for example, or contained within what seems like a three-ring binder.
The books may be centuries?old, but Ms. Boom would argue that the?form is more effective and relevant than ever. ÅgInformation is edited and put in a specific sequence, printed and bound,Åh she said. ÅgThe result of this effort is the freezing of time and information, which is a means of reflection.Åh
Compare books with photographs or paintings, she added. ÅgAn image is serving as a reference of time and place,Åh she said. ÅgThe flux inherent in the internet doesnÅft allow you that kind of time. The printed book is final and thus unchangeable.Åh
Ms. Boom juggles about 15 projects at any?given time, and has?ventured?into exhibition and graphic design. (In 2012,?she?created a?logo for the?Rijksmuseum?here,?in?which she separated ÅgRijksÅh and ÅgmuseumÅh and?caused a minor scandal?when people complained about the space.)?When she first began school at?AKI Academy of Art & Design,?in the Netherlands, she wanted to be a painter. She also tried architecture and photography. But then she met Abe Kuipers, a teacher who would come to the school with a suitcase of books, which he would pull out and discuss. ÅgI was totally intrigued by the idea of bookmaking,Åh Ms. Boom said.
She became more immersed in design, and interned at the Government Publishing and Printing Office in The Hague, where she returned after finishing school.
ÅgI thought,?letÅfs do that for a year,Åh Ms. Boom said. A brief stay turned into?more than five?years.?The office, she said, was Ågtotally dull.Åh It was here, though, that she began to experiment with design on a grand, public scale. She took, as she said, Ågall the jobs nobody else wanted.Åh Given a lot of freedom, she produced radical state publications. In 1988, Ms. Boom designed a sensational pair of stamp books that made her a public figure in the design world, which allowed her to leave her government job, start her own studio and work solely on commissions.
 appear on ballots often matter more to voters than the candidatesÅf names do.
ÅgLots of people just look at the symbol and vote,Åh said K.F. Wilfred, the principal secretary for judicial affairs at the election commission. ÅgWhen they donÅft have a permanent symbol, that political partyÅfs brand image just goes out the window.Åh
For the Samajwadi Party of the state of Uttar Pradesh ? led for years by Mr. Yadav, 43, and his father, Mulayam Singh Yadav ? that symbol was the bicycle. Akhilesh Yadav, who is now the stateÅfs chief minister, fell out with his father after firing two ministers charged with corruption and was briefly expelled from the party. The father and son were each seeking complete control of the bloc and the image.
The election commission ruled that, because most of the partyÅfs legislators supported the younger Mr. Yadav, he can use the bicycle in coming state polls. He rode a Mercedes bicycle to campaign in 2014, trailed by his security detail, and has spoken publicly about its significance as a symbol.
ÅgThe cycle moves after you strike a balance, of pushing the pedal and holding the handle, and I feel that somehow the cycle teaches us something,Åh he said in a recent speech. ÅgIf we move with as much balance as we do while riding a bicycle, we will be successful in life.Åh
A less rhapsodic view is that the Samajwadi bicycle is a brand that has been years or even decades in the making. Confusion over the symbolÅfs use could seriously damage the partyÅfs political future in Uttar Pradesh, a state of roughly 200 million people, said S.Y. Qureshi, a former election commission chief.
This is not the first time divisions among Indian party factions have involved a symbol. When the Indian National Congress split in the late 1970s, former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi dropped the previous symbol, of a cow tending her calf, and chose the partyÅfs current symbol, a palm facing outward.
In the case of the Samajwadi party, losing the bicycle would be a significant setback, said Ambika Choudhary, a party spokesman.
ÅgHow can we think of the bicycle disappearing at this stage?Åh he said. ÅgIt would be very painful for the state of Uttar Pradesh, not just for the Samajwadi party.Åh
Mr. Wilfred, of the election commission, said Mulayam Singh Yadav could take his pick among several unclaimed symbols, including a light bulb, a toffee, a pressure cooker, a sewing machine, ice cream, bread and cauliflower.
ÅgThey are free to choose any one of those,Åh he said.
HawaiiÅfs last working sugar mill, in Puunene, Maui, produced its last harvest last month. The last truck, piled high with newly cut cane stalks, blew its horn as it circled the mill yard. People cheered and held high their phones; a priest led a prayer. The cane was later put on a ship for processing in California, and 375 employees of the Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Company became the last of the last to be laid off.
And that was it ? as 2016 ended, so did an industry that has shaped Hawaii for almost 200 years. So much of the islandsÅf modern history and character, in all its color and complexity, can be traced to one export crop.
Mark Twain, visiting as a newspaper reporter in 1866, marveled at HawaiiÅfs sugar trade. ÅgThis country is the king of the sugar world,Åh he wrote, suggesting America should grab a piece of the action. It did. A treaty in 1875 gave Hawaiian sugar duty-free access to the United States; in return the United States took Pearl Harbor. Soon enough it took the rest: American planters engineered the overthrow of the monarchy in 1893. American annexation followed in 1898 and statehood in 1959.
Photo
Structures on the Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar plantation in Puunene, Hawaii. 
Credit
Audrey Mcavoy/Associated Press 
The cane fields needed workers. Native Hawaiians, then a dying people, were too few. In their book ÅgThe Hawaiians,Åh Gavan Daws and Ed Sheehan explained the great labor migration of the mid-19th to mid-20th century:
ÅgIt was understood that the Anglo-Saxon would never perspire for plantation wages, bent over in the hot sun with hoe or cane knife. If you wanted Europeans, they would have to be Åc Åejust low enough to make them contented with the lot of an isolated settler and its attendant privations.Åf
ÅgIn practice this meant Portuguese, mostly from Madeira and the Azores. Otherwise it meant Orientals, peasants: two kinds of Chinese, the Punti and the Hakka; Japanese from Yamaguchi, Fukuoka, Kumamoto, and Hiroshima prefectures; some Okinawans from the Ryukyus; a handful of Koreans; and four kinds of Filipinos ? Tagalog, Ilocano, Visayan, Panganisan.Åh
About 300,000 recruits never went home. They joined the native Hawaiians and Caucasian descendants of missionaries and merchants to form the core of modern Hawaii, the source of its wondrous social polyphony.
Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter
Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Sign Up
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. 
See Sample Privacy Policy 
A pidgin English born in plantation camps became HawaiiÅfs own creole. Racial intermarriage was unremarkable there, decades before Loving v. Virginia. Ethnic humor flourished without apology or embarrassment. A comedian telling jokes about portagees, pakes and buddhaheads could leave an audience convulsed without rancor, since none of his targets had ever oppressed any of the others, every family had roots in immigrant labor, and they were all related anyway.
Those who remember the plantationsÅf heyday are in their 80s and 90s now. Their deaths show up in The Honolulu Star-Advertiser every day: Theogenes (Porky) Magalso Behic, retired diesel mechanic, Ewa Plantation. Nobuko Urata Hashimura, payroll clerk, McBryde Plantation. Pedro Bonilla Resurreccion, Waialua Plantation. The obituary in August for Dorothy Leilani Ellis Zeffiro, Miss Hawaii 1953, noted that she was of Hawaiian, Chinese, Japanese, English, Irish, Scottish and German descent, and that her late husband, Frank, had been a purchasing agent for Lihue Plantation.
Sugar cane still sways in fallow fields around the state. But the mills are hulks. Agrochemical companies are growing genetically modified seeds, and there are more papayas, macadamia nuts, orchids and anthuriums. My motherÅfs parents, from Okinawa, lived in Pepeekeo, on the Big Island, at the Mauka Loa plantation camp. Nothing is left of it but a towering Norfolk pine on the mountainside, near where horse stables once stood. Worker housing has gone to grass and red dirt.
But the blue Pacific is the same, the low clouds, the moist breeze. Beyond lie Hilo and a graveyard. When my mother and aunts and I visit Grandma and Grandpa, Kana and Kiyuei Higa, we take red anthuriums from the farmers market. To see the names all around, mostly Japanese and Okinawan, is to be struck anew at the strangeness of it, the transplantation of so many from so far away, to an outpost of diversity and harmony: a world built on sugar.
Sections
Home 
Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version
The New York Times
Log In 
Setting
Loading
Technology 
WomenÅfs March Gives Boost to Start-Up for Bus Sharing
By KATIE BENNERJAN. 15, 2017 
Continue reading the main story
Share This Page
Share
Tweet
Email
More
Save
A few days after Donald J. Trump won the presidential election, the founders of Skedaddle, a bus start-up, began seeing some unusual activity.
Their tiny company, which makes an app that lets individuals collectively commission private bus rides, was suddenly hit by a surge in bookings. Some of the bookings originated from places where Skedaddle has done little business before, including Wichita, Kan.; Madison, Wis.; and Macon, Ga. All of the reservations were for travelers to arrive the same day, Jan. 21, at the same destination, Washington.
To see the full article, subscribe here.
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage
Women's March on Washington: What You Need to Know JAN. 10, 2017 
Trump Inauguration Security Planners Brace for Wave of Protesters DEC. 27, 2016 
ÅeYou Focus on the GoodÅf: Women Who Voted for Trump, in Their Own Words JAN. 14, 2017 
IN TRANSIT 
TuesdayÅfs Travel News and Tips JUNE 23, 2015 
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Cecilia Kang contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on January 16, 2017, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Capital March Brings Surge of Business for Bus App. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe 
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage
Women's March on Washington: What You Need to Know JAN. 10, 2017 
Trump Inauguration Security Planners Brace for Wave of Protesters DEC. 27, 2016 
ÅeYou Focus on the GoodÅf: Women Who Voted for Trump, in Their Own Words JAN. 14, 2017 
IN TRANSIT 
TuesdayÅfs Travel News and Tips JUNE 23, 2015 
Trending
Critic's Notebook: ObamaÅfs Secret to Surviving the White House Years: Books 
As Trump Era Arrives, a Sense of Uncertainty Grips the World 
For Trump, Three Decades of Chasing Deals in Russia 
You Draw It: What Got Better or Worse During ObamaÅfs Presidency 
Transcript: President Obama on What Books Mean to Him 
Op-Ed Columnist: With All Due Disrespect 
With Blacks Alarmed by His Tone, Trump Meets With Martin Luther King III 
As Inauguration Nears, Trump Keeps World Leaders on Edge 
Mediator: Bill Maher IsnÅft High on Trump: The State of Free Speech in a New Era 
F.B.I. Arrests Wife of Killer in Orlando Mass Shooting 
View More Trending Stories
What's Next
Loading...
Go to Home Page
Site Index
The New York Times
Site Index Navigation
News
World 
U.S. 
Politics 
N.Y. 
Business 
Tech 
Science 
Health 
Sports 
Education 
Obituaries 
Today's Paper 
Corrections 
Opinion
Today's Opinion 
Op-Ed Columnists 
Editorials 
Contributing Writers 
Op-Ed Contributors 
Opinionator 
Letters 
Sunday Review 
Taking Note 
Room for Debate 
Public Editor 
Video: Opinion 
Arts
Today's Arts 
Art & Design 
Books 
Dance 
Movies 
Music 
N.Y.C. Events Guide 
Television 
Theater 
Video: Arts 
Living
Automobiles 
Crossword 
Food 
Education 
Fashion & Style 
Health 
Jobs 
Magazine 
N.Y.C. Events Guide 
Real Estate 
T Magazine 
Travel 
Weddings & Celebrations 
Listings & More
Classifieds 
Tools & Services 
Times Topics 
Public Editor 
N.Y.C. Events Guide 
Blogs 
Multimedia 
Photography 
Video 
NYT Store 
Times Journeys 
Subscribe 
Manage My Account 
Subscribe
Home Delivery 
Digital Subscriptions 
Times Insider 
Crossword 
Email Newsletters 
Alerts 
Gift Subscriptions 
Corporate Subscriptions 
Education Rate 
Mobile Applications 
Replica Edition 
Site Information Navigation
Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Site Information Navigation
Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions